ui/README.md, before:

## InfluxDB UI

UI assets for InfluxDB are automatically downloaded and embedded in the `influxd` binary
when using the top-level `Makefile`. The UI assets are built and made available from
the [`influxdata/ui` repository](https://github.com/influxdata/ui). Currently, this `ui`
folder and its contents are being kept to preserve the ability to run end-to-end tests via Cypress in this repository against the built UI when changes are made to `influxdb`.

### Starting a Local Development Environment

It is possible to run a frontend development server with hot reloading using the UI from
[`influxdata/ui`](https://github.com/influxdata/ui) in front of the InfluxDB backend:

Start `influxd` listening on the default port (`8086`):

`$ ./bin/darwin/influxd`

Clone (if needed) & start the UI development server from the `ui` repository:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/influxdata/ui.git
$ cd ui
$ yarn start
```

The UI development server runs at [`http://localhost:8080`](http://localhost:8080/)

### Running InfluxDB with Local UI Assets

To run InfluxDB with local UI assets, first build the assets:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/influxdata/ui.git
$ cd ui
$ yarn build
```

Start `influxd` using the local UI assets via the `--assets-path` flag. For example,
if the `ui` folder containing built assets is at the same level as the `influxdb` folder
and the `influxd` binary is at `influxdb/bin/darwin/influxd`:

`$ ./bin/darwin/influxd --assets-path=../ui/build`

### Cypress Testing

For the end to end tests to run properly, the server needs to be running in the e2e testing mode with the in-memory data store. From the `influxdb` directory:

`$ ./bin/darwin/influxd --e2e-testing --store=memory`

From the ui directory, install the packages necessary for testing:

`$ yarn install`

 To run Cypress locally:

`$ yarn cy`

Commit message:

chore: remove dead source code from UI folder (#21446)
* build: updated makefile

* docs: update contributing and readme docs

* chore: delete all the ui files

ui/README.md, after:

## InfluxDB UI

UI assets for InfluxDB are automatically downloaded and embedded in the `influxd` binary
when using the top-level `Makefile`. The UI assets are built and made available from
the [`influxdata/ui` repository](https://github.com/influxdata/ui). All of the UI source code
has been removed from this directory, and now lives in the [`influxdata/ui` repository](https://github.com/influxdata/ui).
Please submit all PRs and issues related to the InfluxDB UI to the [`influxdata/ui` repository](https://github.com/influxdata/ui).

### Starting a Local Development Environment

It is possible to run a frontend development server with hot reloading using the UI from
[`influxdata/ui`](https://github.com/influxdata/ui) in front of the InfluxDB backend:

Start `influxd` listening on the default port (`8086`):

`$ ./bin/darwin/influxd`

Clone (if needed) & start the UI development server from the `ui` repository:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/influxdata/ui.git
$ cd ui
$ yarn start
```

The UI development server runs at [`http://localhost:8080`](http://localhost:8080/)

### Running InfluxDB with Local UI Assets

To run InfluxDB with local UI assets, first build the assets:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/influxdata/ui.git
$ cd ui
$ yarn build
```

Start `influxd` using the local UI assets via the `--assets-path` flag. For example,
if the `ui` folder containing built assets is at the same level as the `influxdb` folder
and the `influxd` binary is at `influxdb/bin/darwin/influxd`:

`$ ./bin/darwin/influxd --assets-path=../ui/build`
